This section has been a while about reference in objects within the word object model.
In this video will discuss on alternative,
which is to activate and select the objects that you want to work with rather than created
references to them.
And this is the technique used by the macro recorder.
In this video,
we'll look at wides a bad idea to imitate this technique when you're right in your own code
.
So for this example,
let's go into the Exercises folder into the Section six folder,
and that's open up the word file the tables file that we worked with earlier.
So here we've got the result of run in Ah,
last macro.
Let's go into developer on the macro I want to focus on is referencing objects.
So here we want to manipulate two types of object.
We want to first of all,
ensure that we working with a specific document,
and we do this by setting a reference to it inside an object variable and in general this
is the most efficient way off manipulating specific objects,
you create a reference to them and then you can manipulate them to your heart's content.
Similarly,
when we want to work with the tables within that document.
What we're interested in doing is mortifying the tables.
So we create a range object and we populate this range object with a reference to the first
cell of the first table that we manipulate inside Al Luke.
We can then use the text property of the range object and the next method of the range
object to efficiently target each so on the second row of each table and modify the text
inside that cell.
The main thing that makes this approach so efficient is the fact that at no time do you
have to activate the document that you want to work in.
And at no time do you actually have to select any of the cells inside of which you're
insert in your text.
So when you write code,
this is the most efficient way of style in it.
You targeting the elements that you want to modify or manipulate.
But you never activate all select them.
So basically,
this is the correct way.
But it's also worth looking at the more inefficient ways off working because you will
encounter a lot of word VB a code that uses this technique.
The technique is based on the weather.
The macro recorder produces its code for obvious reasons.
When your recording a macro,
the only way you can get something to happen is to perform that step.
So if you want to target an object in a particular document,
that document has to be the active document.
If you want to change a certain paragraph of text,
that paragraph has to be selected.
And in our case,
if you want to put some text into a table cell,
that cell has to be selected or activated before you can do so.
So let's begin by making a copy of this subroutine.
I'm just gonna go into full procedure view so I can make sure I paste it in exactly the
right position.
And then,
of course,
we have to rename it.
So we now in Tutorial Five and let's call it simply selecting objects.
What we'll do is we'll modify the code to imitate the kind of code that the macro recorder
would produce.
A lot of people actually,
having started with the macro recorder,
continue to write their code in this manner on it does mean that you end up with code,
which is far more inefficient than it could be before we actually write that code.
Let's use this macro to clear the table.
So to do that,
we simply have to put the null string on each of these lines.
So,
yeah,
quite quotes on here again on here and finally here.
So we're going to basically just loop through all the tables again.
But this time we're right in nothing into the cells,
effectively deleting the contents.
So let's run that trust on.
Just verify that it's work.
Okay,
so you've got a tables blank once more.
Now let's look at deliberately write in code,
which is Univision's.
So this tutorial is basically showing you what you should avoid doing,
what you'll encounter and see other people doing.
But what you yourself should have would like the play.
So let's switch across to procedure view.
So if we're imitating the style of code in use by the macro recorder,
the first thing is we wouldn't be using object variables.
So let's lose doc tables and instead,
what we need to do to work with a document is to activate it.
So here this assignment statement would go on having identified the document that we want
you would then use don't activates.
And thereafter,
any time we want to refer to that document,
we would use active document in the same way we wouldn't have a range object.
And what we would do is tow activate,
each sold we want to work in,
send it here.
We would have active documents and then here cells worm don't select.
So that targets the first.
So I actually selected it rather than creating a reference to it.
And when I'm bangin it is just to switch back to reference in objects and grab this code
one small so that we have actually got the contents that we want to write into their cells
.
Now it's just based it over here.
So having made a selection every time we want to write to it,
we would then be used in selection dot text equals.
So let's change the 1st 1 And then we could just copy that reach of the other lines.
So as it stands,
of course,
the only sell that we've selected is the first soul on the second row off each table.
What we now have to do is that have been written into that first cell,
we have to select the next cell alone.
So to do that,
if we generated the code by recording a macro,
we would press the tab key or the right arrow key to move from cell to cell.
And the code which would be generated by the macro recorder,
would be something along these lines.
Says selection.
Don't move right by which unit so unit covered on equals.
And then w d cell would be the built in in,
um that we would use to say that we're moving right in units off table cells.
And then the second thing would be,
How many units do you want to move?
Right?
So that would be count.
Come on,
equals And,
of course,
one.
So before we put text in each of these,
we would have this line or moving rights.
So let's just copy that now we just need to paste it in front,
solved each of these lines,
okay said before each writes operation,
we have the move operation to make sure that we select the correct cell now effectively
were only modifying four tables with this code so there's not a huge overhead in terms of
the consequences or write in code,
which is slightly inefficient.
But from the point of view of automation of Microsoft Word,
you can imagine that as the projects that you work on become larger.
If you get into the habit of using this technique of always activating the things that you
want,
Teoh manipulate,
you will write code,
which takes an age to run.
And obviously,
um,
your macros,
they're not going to get a very good reputation.
So this macro basically gives us an example or coding techniques that should be avoided at
all costs.
Hopefully,
it still runs.
And the thing to note when it runs,
we start off with January selected at the top here.
And of course,
what's gonna happen is that the macro is gonna obey every command that we've given it.
So we've said select one.
So moved one.
So moved once.
Oh,
and all those steps basically will be laboriously obeyed and performed in the user
interface.
So let's just run.
It's still fairly fast because obviously it's not.
We haven't asked it to do very much.
You can see scrolled all the way down to December when we finished with that soul selected
throughout the course will be using object variables to create references to all of the
objects that we want to manipulate.
So this video basically is just to show you a couple of techniques,
which you will see as alternative methods to the methods that we use in in these tutorials
.
But I just want to explain to you why we're not using them and why.
I think you should try and avoid them,
creating a reference to each object that you need to manipulate with your code.
It means that your macron's will execute more quickly.
Since your code does not rely on interacting with the user interface instead of selecting
or activated an object with your code,
it is more efficient to create a reference to it using an object variable